feat(changelog): kubernetes-changed-routed-ips-now-default-on-new-kubern 2024-03-22 (#2942)
scaleway/docs-content: changelog/march2024/2024-03-22-kubernetes-changed-routed-ips-now-default-on-new-kubern.mdx

---

> title: Routed IPs now default on new Kubernetes clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Routed IPs are available by default on Kubernetes clusters
```

Reviewer 2: I think it's more than just available, they are the default IP type you will get (if I have understood correctly) so maybe "Routed IPs are now default on Kubernetes clusters" or potentially "provisioned by default"

status: changed
author:
    fullname: 'Join the #k8s channel on Slack.'
    url: 'https://slack.scaleway.com'
date: 2024-03-22
category: containers
product: kubernetes
---

> [Routed IPs](https://www.scaleway.com/en/news/routed-ips-are-coming-to-all-scaleway-products/) are coming to all Scaleway products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Routed IPs](https://www.scaleway.com/en/news/routed-ips-are-coming-to-all-scaleway-products/) will soon be available for all Scaleway resources!
```

Reviewer 2: Again I think it's more than just available, they are becoming default and they are "coming" in the sense that soon you won't be able to choose to have NAT IPs any more

Reviewer: I've updated my comment!

> Effective now, new Kubernetes clusters will provision nodes with public IP addresses directly routed to the Instance, without having to go through a NAT gateway to convert from public IP to a private IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective now, new Kubernetes clusters will provision nodes with public IP addresses directly routed to the Instance, without having to go through a NAT gateway to convert from public IP to a private IP.
```

Reviewer 2: ?

Reviewer: I don't know what happened here 😂

If you want to know more about the changes behind this evolution, take a look at our [blog post](https://www.scaleway.com/en/blog/ip-mobility-removing-nat/).

> Read the manual and automatic migrations plans [on this page](https://www.scaleway.com/en/news/routed-ips-are-coming-to-all-scaleway-products/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find out more about the manual and automatic migrations plans [on this page.](https://www.scaleway.com/en/news/routed-ips-are-coming-to-all-scaleway-products/)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
